welcome to the man of recaps this is his
dark materials season one welcome to a
world not unlike our own except everyone
gets a super cute animal companion
called a demon spelled this way
cool but it's ruled by an evil
church-themed empire called the
magisterium not so cool now meet lyra
she's an orphan raised as a ward of
jordan college dropped off here as a
baby lyra's had a pretty good life so
far hanging out with her best friend
roger the kitchen boy and her demon
pantalyman goes by pan but now her uncle
lord asriel played by james mcavoy a
super cool adventurer is here to visit
the headmaster tries to poison him but
luckily lyra saves him just in time see
he's given a presentation tonight about
the research he's been doing up at the
north pole
about dust we don't learn what dust is
yet but it's super illegal to even talk
about that's why they tried to poison
him before he could give the
presentation but he's discovered
something even crazier in the aurora
borealis there is a
city yeah it's a portal to another world
he also claims to have found the head of
professor gruman the last professor that
was up there researching things he
thinks the magisterium killed him lyra
really wants to go with her super cool
uncle on his adventures in the north but
he's like yeah i'm a badass scholar
adventurer i don't have time to be
babysitting but soon after jordan
college gets another exciting visitor
mrs coulter who's got a creepy golden
monkey demon turns out she's a super
cool scholar explorer too and she wants
lyra to come with her now naturally lyra
is part of some prophecy so the
professors give her a cool magic item
the elethiometer yes this is the golden
compass that the first book is named
after and apparently it tells you the
truth they don't tell her how to use it
though so she's just like hey siri
what's what's up elsewhere in town meet
the egyptians the nomadic boat people
they're celebrating this kid's bar
mitzvah yeah when you're a kid your
demon can change forms willy-nilly but
once you're a teenager it settles on one
that night young gypsian billy costas
he's a scary fox demon and oh he's
kidnapped turns out lots of kids have
gone missing lately captured by the
mysterious gobblers
in fact just then roger gets gobbled up
too mrs culture's like hey we'll look
for him in london while we go on our
adventure so lara travels to london to
be mrs colter's assistant mrs colter
seems very nice but is also kind of
creepy just stares off in a bathtub
sometimes and one night when lyra
snooping around she finds her golden
monkey demon
way at the other end of the hallway
that's not supposed to be possible to be
that far apart
soon they have a big fight that turns
into a pokemon battle monkey oh he's got
pan liar's like you can't treat me like
this my uncle lord azrael will save me
but mrs colter drops a truth bomb
asriel's not your uncle
he's your father so lara does some more
snooping finds out mrs coulter's running
the general oblation board
g-o-b yeah she's the gobblers yes the
magisterium is kidnapping kids for
sinister reasons lara tries to run away
but she gets gobbled up too
luckily she's saved by the egyptians
yeah the egyptians rolled out in force
to try to find their missing kids
they're led by double game of thrones
actors this one's jon fah the egyptian
king and this other one's farter quorum
farter spelled with a d pronounced like
a guy who farts there's also ma costa
looking for her son billy takes lyra
under her wing in fact she knows a
secret about lyra's parents yeah lord
azrael is her father but her mother
was mrs coulter neither of them wanted
to be parents though so gave lyra up to
be raised as an orphan but now mrs
coulter wants her daughter back she
sends these tracking bugs after her lyra
catches one but the other gets away
luckily the egyptians aren't sticking
around they've learned that gobblers
have taken all their kids to the north
pole so they sell all their little boats
for one big boat
and we're going north now on the way
lyra learns a little more about the ole
theometer apparently you set the dials
to the symbols that sort of frame a
question and then you concentrate on it
and it'll tell you the answer
it takes years of study to even begin to
understand it but lyra just kind of
wings it and she's a natural now who's
this it's lin-manuel miranda as lee
scorsby the texan hot air ballooner he's
a good-hearted scoundrel with his hair
demon hester he's here to rescue his
friend yorick bernesen who is an
armored polar bear the town stole his
armor though and using it as leverage
he's basically a slave here but lyra
with their golden compass powers hey
siri where's the armor so
eric goes on a rampage to get it back
and boom armored bear time baby
so lee and yorick agree to come with
egyptians on their quest now the
magisterium is mostly full of loser old
dudes with like beetles as demons but
one magisterium agent lord boreal is
super sexy got a cool snake demon he's
hunting down this professor grumman
who's headlord azrael apparently found
but he doesn't think it's him
in fact he goes to this strange tear in
reality and steps through
oh it's a portal to another world in not
just any other world it is in fact
our world lord boreal is a seasoned
world traveler apparently he's got a
tesla parked here though it's built up a
bunch of parking tickets apparently
professor grumman was actually from
our world traveled to lyra's world
through the big opening at the north
pole and he has a family here this kid
named will will's a good kid takes care
of his mom who's never fully recovered
from her husband's disappearance
in fact she has some letters from her
husband that apparently explain what he
knows about parallel worlds lord boyle
wants those letters when she won't give
him up he hires some goons to ransack
the house but we'll find him first and
when he tries to fight these guys off oh
the cat gets in the way
and knocks this guy off the balcony yeah
uh will's cat just killed a guy now back
to lyra the elite theometer points her
towards billy costa she hops on her new
bear friend and rides off through the
tundra apparently his story is he was
supposed to be the king of the bears but
he was framed for murder and exiled for
now they find billy costa hooray but
wait a second
where's his demon yes the magisterium is
cutting kids demons away who knows why
but it leaves them as a shell of a human
being and he soon dies soon after lyra
gets gobbled up again she gives them a
fake name they don't know she's mrs
coulter's daughter so they put her in
with the rest of the kids
luckily here lyra is reunited with her
best friend roger the lyra's getting
pretty old they need to cut her before
her demon settles so they pick her to go
next put her in pan in this crazy
machine with a guillotine between them
it's only just then when mrs coulter
sees her that's my daughter stops the
experiment she finally explains what
they're doing it's all about dust now
dust settles on adults but it ignores
kids whose demons haven't settled yet
the magisterium thinks that dust is a
physical manifestation of
sin and if they cut kids demons away
before they settle the kids will like
always be sin free and it'll be an
awesome paradise world mrs coulter's
like so you see it's for the greater
good but it's like
you're kidnapping kids and most of them
don't survive these experiments are you
the bad guy
lyra manages to distract her mom with
the spy fly she sent after her earlier
and locks her in her room she runs over
to the intercision machine turns that
thing on full power and
boom explodes it luckily just then the
egyptians arrive it's a big old fight
scene in fact they get some
reinforcements from a witch who moves
super fast takes all these guys out yeah
her name is serafina pekla apparently
her and farter coram used to date in
fact she's still kind of into it she
doesn't mind old hairy men she's like
come here you big bear give mama some
honey so the kids are saved and the
egyptian's quest is over but lyra's like
hey since i've come this far i want to
keep going north and find my father lord
asriel he scores b agrees to take her in
his balloon along with yorick bernison
who seems too big to float but that
night they're attacked by monkey bats so
big fight in chaos lyra unlatches the
balloon door oh she's hanging on and she
falls to her death but she survives
apparently she landed in some really
soft snow and lyra is captured again
this time by armored bears they're
currently ruled by the evil bear king
who set up yorick lyra thinks quick on
her feet and claims to be
yorick's demon he's like what i didn't
know bears could have demons if he has
one i want one she's like yeah i'll
become your demon if you beat him in
single combat so yorick's allowed in
he's like wow girl you're an amazing
talker i give you the nickname
lyra silverton and then it's time for an
armored bear battle
except they fight without their armor on
so not as cool long story short yorick
wins and is now the king of the bears
who are going to be good bears now
so live reunites with a friend roger lee
scores be crashed the balloon somewhere
else i guess and together they ride
their bear friend up to lord azrael's
super sweet polar cabin turns out lord
asriel was expecting a kid but when he
sees lyra he's like no it wasn't
supposed to be you
then when he sees she brought roger with
him his demeanor totally changes he's
like oh hey random orphan kid i don't
care about
sure looks like he's about to get human
sacrificed so larry and her dad finally
talk about what he's doing up here this
whole dust is sin thing he's like yo i'm
an atheist i don't buy that turns out
dust whatever it is comes from the world
on the other side of the aurora borealis
he wants to travel through that portal
and discover the real nature of the
universe
unfortunately to open the portal he
needs a huge burst of energy the kind
that you get when you split a kid from
his demon yeah poor roger just can't
catch a break but also just then mrs
coulter leaving the magisterium in force
flying in on their airship's gonna stop
lord asriel from doing his heresy but
the armored bears are here to help so
it's a bear verse blimp fight how do
bears fight blimps you ask well they
have artillery
alright saliva is trying to save her
best friend from her father who just
like her mother is gonna kill him for
the greater good but she's too late lord
asriel oh he goes through with it
sliced off and boom big explosion of
energy that eventually settles down to a
doorway to another world just then mrs
colter meets him on the top of the
mountain he's like hey my love forget
the magisterium join me
he's got some pretty big talk here like
he wants to find the authority their
word for god and kill him i guess
free the world from his tyranny help me
create a new
republic of heaven she's made her choice
though she's dedicated to the
magisterium so these two are opposed but
they're still super attracted to each
other and
me cow so she doesn't stop him she goes
home as lord asriel travels through the
gateway to another world
lara gets there a minute later too late
to save roger he is dead and when
there's a shining doorway to another
world in front of you
you step through it her travels are
intercut with will back on our world he
was sort of hiding out after
accidentally helping his cat kill a guy
in fact he follows this random other cat
too the portal that lord boreal uses he
figures what the heck and goes through
too
so are kids traveling to another world
and that's how season one comes to an
end if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you love
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member